metriql is licensed under the Business Source License agreement below.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Business Source License 1.1

Licensor:                  Rakam, Inc.

Licensed Work:             metriql version 0.3
                           The Licensed Work is © 2021 Rakam, Inc.

Additional Use Grant:      Usage of the software is free when your application
                           uses the Software for non-production purposes, and 
                           a single metriql deployment is connected to a single project. 
                           A project is defined as a set a metriql datasets that 
                           which can be created from dbt projects using dbt Metadata API 
                           (manifest.json target) or a set of metriql YML files.
                           If you purchase the license from the licensor, 
                           you may use the software for production purposes and 
                           to connect it to multiple dbt projects in a single 
                           metriql deployment.


Change Date:               August 20, 2025

Change License:            Apache License, Version 2.0


For information about alternative licensing arrangements for the Software,
please visit https://metriql.com/

For information on the Business Source License, please visit the MariaDB 
Business Source License FAQ: https://mariadb.com/bsl-faq-adopting/


Notice

The Business Source License (this document, or the “License”) is not an Open
Source license. However, the Licensed Work will eventually be made available
under an Open Source License, as stated in this License.

License text copyright © 2017 MariaDB Corporation Ab, All Rights Reserved.
“Business Source License” is a trademark of MariaDB Corporation Ab.

Terms

The Licensor hereby grants You the right to copy, modify, create derivative
works, redistribute, and make non-production use of the Licensed Work. The
Licensor may make an Additional Use Grant, above, permitting limited production
use.

Effective on the Change Date, or the fourth anniversary of the first publicly
available distribution of a specific version of the Licensed Work under this
License, whichever comes first, the Licensor hereby grants you rights under the
terms of the Change License, and the rights granted in the paragraph above
terminate.

If your use of the Licensed Work does not comply with the requirements currently
in effect as described in this License, you must purchase a commercial license
from the Licensor, its affiliated entities, or authorized resellers, or you must
refrain from using the Licensed Work.

All copies of the original and modified Licensed Work, and derivative works of
the Licensed Work, are subject to this License. This License applies separately
for each version of the Licensed Work and the Change Date may vary for each
version of the Licensed Work released by Licensor.

You must conspicuously display this License on each original or modified copy of
the Licensed Work. If you receive the Licensed Work in original or modified form
from a third party, the terms and conditions set forth in this License apply to
your use of that work.

Any use of the Licensed Work in violation of this License will automatically
terminate your rights under this License for the current and all other versions
of the Licensed Work.

This License does not grant you any right in any trademark or logo of Licensor
or its affiliates (provided that you may use a trademark or logo of Licensor as
expressly required by this License).

TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE LICENSED WORK IS PROVIDED ON AN
“AS IS” BASIS. LICENSOR HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS, EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING (WITHOUT LIMITATION) WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, AND TITLE.

MariaDB hereby grants you permission to use this License’s text to license your
works, and to refer to it using the trademark“Business Source License”, as long
as you comply with the Covenants of Licensor below.

Covenants of Licensor

In consideration of the right to use this License’s text and the “Business
Source License” name and trademark, Licensor covenants to MariaDB, and to all
other recipients of the licensed work to be provided by Licensor:

1. To specify as the Change License the GPL Version 2.0 or any later version, or
   a license that is compatible with GPL Version 2.0 or a later version, where
   “compatible” means that software provided under the Change License can be
   included in a program with software provided under GPL Version 2.0 or a later
   version. Licensor may specify additional Change Licenses without limitation.

2. To either: (a) specify an additional grant of rights to use that does not
   impose any additional restriction on the right granted in this License, as
   the Additional Use Grant; or (b) insert the text “None”.

3. To specify a Change Date.

4. Not to modify this License in any other way.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
